okay today I'm speaking with David
Deutsch now this is a conversation that
I've been
um eagerly wanting to have for years so
this is very exciting for me so first
let's talk about AI
um can you briefly explain why you
anticipate that AIS will be no more
fundamentally intelligent than humans
uh I I suppose you mean agis yes
um
and uh by fundamentally intelligent I
suppose you mean
um capable of all the same types of
cognition as humans are in principle yes
so uh that would include
um you know doing science and doing art
and and in principle also falling in
love and and uh being good and being
evil and and all that so the reason uh
it
um
the reason is twofold
and uh one half is about computation
Hardware computation hardware and the
other is about
um software so if we take the hardware
um we know that uh our our brains are
touring complete
um bits of hardware and therefore can uh
exhibit the functionality of running any
computable
um function program for any computable
function
now when I say any
I don't really mean any because you and
I sitting here you know we're having
conversation and we could say you know
we could have any conversation well
uh
we we can assume that maybe in a hundred
years time we'll both be dead
and therefore the number of
conversations we could have is strictly
Limited
uh and also some conversations uh depend
on speed of computation
so uh you know if if we're going to be
solving the traveling salesman problem
then uh there are there are many
traveling salesman problems that we
wouldn't be able to solve in the age of
the universe
so when I say any I'm what I mean is
that we're we're not limited in the
programs we can run apart from by speed
and memory capacity
so all limitations
on us Hardware limitations on us boil
down to speed and memory capacity
and both those can be augmented
to the level of any other entity that is
in the universe because you know if
somebody builds a computer that can
think faster than the brain then we can
use that very computer or that very
technology to make our thinking go just
as fast as that
so that's the hardware
um as far as uh explanations go can we
can we reach the same kind of
explanations as any other entity let's
say uh usually this is said not in terms
of agis but in terms of
um
uh extraterrestrial intelligences but
also it's said about agis you know what
what if they are to us as we are to ants
um and so on well again part of that is
just Hardware which is easily fixable by
adding more Hardware so let's let's
forget about that
um so really the the idea is is there
are there are there uh Concepts that we
are inherently incapable of
comprehending I think uh Martin Reese
believes this
uh he he he thinks that uh you know we
can comprehend quantum mechanics
Apes can't and maybe the
extraterrestrials can comprehend
um something Beyond quantum mechanics
which we can't comprehend and and no
amount of brain add-ons with extra
Hardware can give us that because they
have
the hardware that is
that is
um adapted to having these Concepts
which which uh we haven't the same kind
of thing is said about maybe certain
qualia that that maybe we can experience
love and an AGI couldn't experience love
because it has to do with our Hardware
not just memory and speed but
specialized Hardware
and
um I think that falls victim to the same
argument the thing is this specialized
Hardware can't be anything except a a
computer
and if there's Hardware that that uh is
needed for love let's say that somebody
is born without that Hardware
then that Hardware that bit of the brain
that does love or the or that does
mathematical Insight or whatever it's
just a bit of the brain and it's
connected to the rest of the brain in
the same way you didn't hear the other
part of the brain is connected to the
rest of the brain namely by neurons uh
passing electrical signals and
biochemicals whose concentrations are
altered and so on so therefore an
artificial device
that computed which signals were to be
sent and which uh uh
um chemicals were to be adjusted
uh could do the same job and it would be
indistinguishable and therefore a person
augmented with one of those who couldn't
feel love could feel love after that
augmentation so those are those are and
I think those two
things are the only relevant ones so
that's why I think
um that aagis and and humans have the
same range in the sense I've defined
okay interesting
um okay so I I think um the software
question is more interesting uh than the
hardware one immediately but I do want
to take issue with
um the idea that uh the memory and speed
of human brains can be arbitrarily and
easily expanded but we can get into that
later
uh we can just start with this question
can all all humans explain everything
that even the smartest humans can uh
explain right so if I took the village
idiot and I asked him to you know create
the theory of quantum computing
um should I anticipate that if you
wanted to he could do this and just
reframe a reference about 21 to 24 of
Americans on uh the national literacy
survey they um they fall in level one
which means that they can't even perform
basic tasks like identifying the expiry
date of a driver's license for example
or totaling a bank deposit slip so
um are these humans capable of
explaining Quantum Computing or creating
the Deutsche dose algorithm and if
they're not capable of doing this
um doesn't that mean that the theory of
universal explainers falls apart
well there there are people who so these
tasks that you're talking about are
tasks that no ape could do
uh however there are humans who are
brain damaged to the extent that they
can't even do the tasks that an ape can
do and there comes a point when when
um
uh
installing the program that would you
know be able to read the driver's
license or whatever would require uh
augmenting their Hardware as well as
their software
so if if a person we don't know that
might we don't know enough about the
brain
yet but if if some of the people that
you talk if it's 24 of the population
then it's definitely not Hardware so I I
would uh I would say that for those
people it's definitely software
it was Hardware then
um getting them to do this would be a
matter of repairing the the imperfect
Hardware if it's software it is not just
a matter of them wanting to or them
wanting to be to be taught or whatever
it is it is a matter of
um whether the existing software
is
um
what word can I use instead of wants to
uh is is conceptually ready to do that
for for example
um Brett Hall has often said that that
he would like to speak Mandarin Chinese
and so he wants to but he will never be
able to speak Mandarin Chinese because
he's never going to want it
enough to be able to go through the
process
um of acquiring that program
but there is nothing about his Hardware
that prevents him learning Mandarin
Chinese and there's nothing about his
software either
except
that well what word can we use to say
that he doesn't want to go through that
process I mean he does want to learn it
he does want to learn it but he doesn't
want to go through the process of being
programmed with that program
but if his circumstances changed
he might well want to uh so for example
uh uh many of my relatives a couple of
generations ago were forced to migrate
to very alien places where they had to
learn languages that they never thought
they would ever uh speak and never
wanted to speak and yet very quickly
they did speak those languages
uh again was it because what they wanted
changed in in the big picture perhaps
you could say what they wanted changed
so if you're uh driving license blind
people wanted
to be educated to read driving licenses
in the sense that my ancestors wanted to
learn languages then yes they could
learn that
there is a level of dysfunction below
which they couldn't and I think those
are Hardware limitations on the
borderline between those two uh there's
not that much difference it's it's like
you know that's like the question of
could Apes be programmed with a fully
human uh intellect
and I think the answer to that is yes
but there although
programming them would not require
Hardware you know surgery in the sense
that repairing a defect that it would be
repairing a defect but it would require
intricate changes at the neuron level
and and that so that to transfer the
program from a human mind into the the
Apes mind I I I would guess that that's
possible because although the ape has
far less
um
uh far less uh memory space than humans
do and also doesn't have certain
specialized modules that humans have
neither of those things is a thing that
we use to the full anyway I mean when
I'm speaking to you now there's a lot of
knowledge in my brain that I'm not
referring to at all like you know the
fact that I can
play the piano or or drive a car is not
being used in this conversation so I
don't think the fact that we have such a
large memory capacity would affect this
this uh project where the project would
be highly immoral because you'd be uh
intentionally creating a
a uh person inside a deficient
um brain Hardware
so suppose as Hardware differences that
distinguish you know
different humans in terms of uh their
intelligence if it were just up to the
people who are not even functionally
literate right so these are again people
wait wait wait
uh I said that it could only be Hardware
at the low level uh well either at the
level of brain defects or at the level
of using up the whole of our allocation
of memory or speed or whatever so right
but if I don't think it can be Hardware
by the way a software analogous or is
Hardware synonymous with genetic
influences for you or it can software be
genetic too
software can be genetic too though
though that doesn't mean it's immutable
this means is there there at the
beginning
okay
um the reason I suspect it's not
software is because these people also
happen to be the same people who let's
suppose it was software and something
that they chose to do or if something
could change
um it's mysterious to me why these
people would also choose to um accept
jobs that have lower pay but are less
cognitive demanding or why they would
choose to you know do worse on academic
tests or you know IQ tests so uh why
they would choose to do exactly the sort
of thing somebody who's less cognitively
powerful would do
um it seems a more personal explanation
there it's just that they are
cognitively less powerful
no not at all why would someone choose
not to go to school for instance if they
were given the choice and not to have
any lessons well there are many reasons
why they might choose that some of them
good some of them bad
and the people who you know
calling some jobs cognitively demanding
is already begging the question because
uh you're just referring to a choice
that people make which I think is a
software Choice as being by definition a
uh forced on them by Hardware it's not
cognitively deficient it's just that
they don't want to do it the same way if
if there was a culture
that required Brett Hall to
um
uh be able to speak fluent Mandarin
Chinese in order to do a wide range of
tasks and if he if he didn't know
Mandarin Chinese he'd be relegated to
low level tasks then he would be quote
quote choosing the low-level tasks
rather than the quote cognitively
demanding task
but it's only a culture that makes that
cognitively demanding task
um that that assigns a hardware
interpretation to the difficulty of
doing that task
right I mean it doesn't seem bad
arbitrary to say that the kind of jobs
you could do sitting down on a laptop
are require a different cognitive um
require probably more cognition than the
ones you can do in uh in the
construction site and um if it's not if
it's not cognition that distinguishes or
if there's not something like
intelligence recognition or whatever you
want to call it that is a thing that is
measured by both these literacy tests
and by uh what you're doing at your job
then what is the explanation for why
there's such a high correlation between
people who are not functionally literate
and or I guess an anti-correlation
between people who are not functionally
literate and people who are doing like
let's say programmers right like I
guarantee you people working at Apple uh
all of them are above level one on this
uh literacy survey
um why do they just happen to make the
same choices why is that their
correlation
well uh there are correlations
everywhere and and
culture is built
in order to use in order to make certain
uh abilities
um make use of certain abilities that
people have so if you're if you're
setting up a company that is going to
employ a 10 000
um uh employees then it's best to make
the way that the company works you know
it's best for example to make the signs
above the doors or the signs on the
doors or the the numbers on the dials
all be ones that people in that culture
who are Highly Educated can read
you could in principle make each label
on each door a different language I
don't know you know there are thousands
of human languages let's say there are 5
000 languages and 5 000 doors in the
company you could
given the same meaning make them all
different languages the reason that
they're all the same language and what's
more not just any old language it's a
language that many educated people know
fluently that's why and then
you can misinterpret that as saying oh
there is something uh
um there is some Hardware reason why
everybody speaks the same language well
no there isn't it's a cultural reason
okay so if the culture was uh different
somehow maybe if there was some other
way of communicating ideas
um is it do you think that the people
who are currently designated as not
functionally literate could be in a
position to learn about Quantum
Computing for example
and if they made the right choices
um or not the right choices but uh the
choices that could lead to them
understanding Quantic reading well
um
so I don't want to rewrite the question
the answer is yes but the way you the
way you put it is is again
uh rather begs the question it's not
only language that is like this it's all
knowledge
so so uh
just learning so if someone doesn't
speak English
Quantum Computing is is a is a field in
which English is the standard language
um used to be German now it's English
now someone who doesn't know English
is at a disadvantage learning about
quantum computers but not only because
of their deficiency in language
if they come from a culture in which the
culture of physics and of mathematics
and and of logic and so on is is is
equivalent and only the language is
different then if they just learn the
language they they will find it as easy
as anyone else but if a whole load of
things are different if a person doesn't
think in terms of for example logic but
thinks in terms of Pride and Manliness
and and fear and and
[Music]
um you know all sorts of
um
Concepts that gov that fill the lives of
uh let's say
um
uh
prehistoric people
or pre-enlightenment people then to be
able to understand quantum computers
they would have to learn a lot more than
just the language of the civilization
they'd have to learn all of other well
not all but a a range of other features
of the civilization
and on that basis the people who can't
read driving licenses are similarly in a
different culture
which they would also have to learn if
they are to increase their IQ I.E their
ability to function at a high level in
intellectual culture in our civilization
okay if they did they would be able to
okay so if it's those kinds of
differences then how do you explain the
fact that identicals when separated at
Birth and adopted by different families
um they tend to have a uh uh you know I
the most of the variants
um that does exist between humans in
terms of IQ doesn't exist between uh
identical twins in fact the correlation
is 0.8 which is the correlation that you
you would have when you took the test on
different days like depending on how
well good a day you were having
um and these are you know people who are
adopted by families who have different
cultures who are often in different
countries
um get in fact uh a hardware Theory uh
explains very well why they would have
similar scores on IQ tests or themselves
correlated with literacy and job
performance and so on whereas I don't
know how software would explain why
being adopted by different families
the hardware Theory explains it in the
sense that it might be Hardware might be
true
so uh it doesn't cons it doesn't have an
explanation beyond that and normal is
the software Theory
um sorry go on
uh the I mean so there are actually like
differences at the level of brain that
are correlated with IQ right so you the
actual skull size is like a 0.3
correlation with IQ there's a few more
like this they don't explain the entire
um the entire variance in human
intelligence or the entire genetic
variants in human intelligence but we do
have we have identified a few actual
Hardware differences that correlated
about you suppose suppose on the
contrary that that suppose that the
results of these experiments had been
different
uh suppose that the result was
that
um uh
um
people who uh are brought up in the same
family and differ only
in
um the amount of hair they have
or in the amount in in their appearance
in any other way that that
um none of those differences make any
difference to their IQ only
that only who their parents were makes a
difference now wouldn't that be
surprising
it wouldn't it be surprising that
there's nothing else correlated with IQ
other than who your parents are
yes um
um now
much correlation should we expect there
are correlations everywhere you know
there are these things on the internet
which uh joke uh memes or whatever you
call it uh but but they make a serious
point where they correlate uh things
like how many
how many uh adventure movies have been
made in a given year correlated with how
much the GNP per capita and that's a bad
example because there's an obvious
relation but you know what I mean it's
it's the number of films made by a
particular actor against the
a number of outbreaks of bird flu or
that and
um
part of
being surprised by Randomness
is the fact that correlations are
everywhere
it's not just that correlation isn't
causation it's that correlations are
everywhere it's it's not a rare event to
get a correlation between two things and
the more things you
ask about the more you are going to get
correlations
so uh the the the the
it's it's not so what is surprising is
that the
um
things that are correlated
are
uh
uh things that you expect to be
correlated and measured for example they
when they when they
um
uh do these twin studies and measure the
IQ they control for certain things
uh and like you said uh identical twins
reared together they've got to be reared
together
or apart yes yeah so uh but but
there's infinitely more things that they
don't control for
so it it could be that the real
determinant of
uh IQ is for example
how well a child is treated between the
ages of three and a half and four and a
half
where well is defined by something that
we don't know yet but you know something
like that
then you would expect that thing which
we don't know about and nobody has
bothered to
um
uh control for in these experiments we
would expect that thing to be correlated
with IQ
but unfortunately that thing is also
correlated with whether something
someone's an identical twin or not
so it's it's not the identical twinness
that is causing the similarity it's this
other thing
right this say an aspect of appearance
or something and if you were to
surgically change a person with a view
if you knew what this thing was and
surgically change the person you would
be able to have the same effect as
making an identical twin would have
right but I mean as you say in science
or in to explain any phenomenon there's
an infinite amount of possible
explanations right you ought to pick the
best one so it could be that there's
some unknown trade which is so obvious
to adopted parents different adopted
parents so they can use it as a basis
for um discrimination or for different
treatment but that is I mean I would
assume they don't know what it is
but then aren't they using it as basis
to treat kids differently at the age of
three for example not by not by
consciously identifying it it it's it's
like it would be something like getting
the idea that this child is really smart
sure but I'm just trying to show you
that it could be something that the
parents are not aware of if you ask
parents to the list the traits in their
children that cause them to behave
differently towards their children they
might list like 10 traits
but then there are another thousand
traits that they're not aware of which
also affect their behavior
so we at first needed an explanation for
what this trait is that researchers have
not been able to identify but it's so
um obvious that even unconsciously
parents are able to reliably use it as a
way to
um to be obvious at all because uh
parents
um
have a huge amount of information about
their children which they are uh uh
processing in in their minds and uh most
of it they don't know what it is
okay all right
um okay so I guess uh uh let's leave
this topic aside for now and then let me
let me uh bring us to animals so if it
if creativity is something that doesn't
exist increments it's uh or you know ex
the capacity to create explanations
um you can just use a simple example go
on YouTube and look up cat opening a
door right so you'll see for example
um a cat uh develops a theory that
applying torque to this handle to this
metal thing will open uh door now it
hasn't and then what it'll do is it'll
climb onto a countertop and it'll jump
on top of that door handle it hasn't
seen another cat do it it hasn't seen
another human like get on a countertop
and try to open the door that way but it
conjectures that this is a way given
it's um given its morphology that it can
access the door
um and then you know so that's his
theory and then the experiment is will
the door open
um this seems like a classic uh this
seems like a classic cycle of conjecture
and reputation
um is this compatible with the cat not
being at least having some bounded form
of creativity I think it's perfectly
compatible
uh so uh animals are amazing things and
uh instinctive animal knowledge is is
designed to make animals easily capable
of
um uh thriving in environments that
they've never seen before
uh in fact uh
if you don't go down to the level of
detail
in animals have never seen the
environment before I mean maybe a
goldfish in a goldfish Bowl uh and might
have but uh when a when a a wolf runs
through the forest
uh it sees a pattern of trees that it
has never seen before and it has to
um uh create strategies for avoiding
each tree and not only that for actually
catching the rabbit that it's running
after as well in a way that has never
been done before so
um the way to understand this I think
now this is because of a vast amount of
knowledge that is in the wolf's genes
what kind of knowledge is this well it's
not the kind of knowledge that says
first turn left then turn right then
jump and so on it's it's not that kind
of instruction it's an instruction that
takes input
from the outside and and then generates
a behavior that is relevant to that
input
um it doesn't involve creativity but it
involves a degree of sophistication in
the program that that human robotics has
not has not yet reached anywhere near
that and by the way then when it sees a
wolf of the opposite sex it may decide
to leave the rabbit and go and have sex
instead
and a program for a robot to to
locate another robot of the right
species and then have sex with it is
again
uh I think Beyond present day robotics
but uh it it will be done
um and it does not it clearly does not
require creativity because it can that
same program
will lead the next wolf to do the same
thing in the same circumstances it's the
fact that the circumstances are ones
that it's never seen before
and it can still function is a testimony
to the incredible sophistication of that
program but it has nothing to do with
creativity so
um
uh
humans
humans do
do tasks that require much much less
programming sophistication than that
such as sitting around a campfire
telling each other a scary story about a
wolf that that almost ate them now
animals can do the wolf running away
thing they they can they can they can
enact a story that's more complicated
even than the one the human is telling
but they can't tell a story they don't
tell a story
telling a story is is a sort of typical
creative activity it's the same kind of
activity as forming an explanation
so I I don't think it's at all
surprising that cats can uh jump on on
handles because it's the same
I can easily imagine that the same
amazingly sophisticated program that
lets it jump on a branch so that the
branch will get out of its way in some
sense will also function in this new
environment that it's never seen before
but there are all sorts of other things
that it can't do
oh they that's definitely true which was
my point is that it has a bounded form
of creativity and if bounded forms of
creativity can can exist then humans
could be in one such but so I'm having a
hard time Imagining the ancestral um
circumstance in which uh a cat couldn't
uh would uh have genetic gain the
genetic knowledge that jumping on metal
rod would get a wooden plank to open and
give it access to the you know the other
side
well I I I thought I just gave an
example I mean
if we don't know at least I don't know
uh what kind of environment the ancestor
of the domestic cats lived in
uh but if it was for example if if it
contained
undergrowth
then uh dealing with undergrowth
requires some very sophisticated
programs otherwise you will just get
stuck uh somewhere and starve to death
now I think a dog
um if it gets stuck in a bush
it has no program to get out other than
just shaking itself about and until it
it gets out it doesn't have a concept of
doing something which temporarily makes
matters worse and then allows you to get
out
I think dogs can't do that but it's just
it's not because that's a particularly
complicated thing it's just that it's
programming just doesn't have that but
an animal's programming easily could
have that if it if it lived in an
environment in which that happened a lot
is your uh theory of AI compatible with
AIS that have narrow objective functions
but functions which uh if fulfilled were
to give the creator of the AI a lot of
power so if for example I wrote a a deep
learning program I traded over Financial
history and I asked it make me a
trillion dollars on the stock market
um do you think that this would be
impossible or and if you think this
would be possible then it seems like I
do it's not an AGI but it seems like a
very powerful AI right so it seems like
AI is getting somewhere
yeah well if you want to be powerful uh
you you might do better inventing a
weapon or something
um but but or or a better mouse trap is
even better because it's it's
non-violent so you you can invent a
paper clip
to use an example that's often used in
this context
if paperclips hadn't been invented you
can invent a paper clip and make a
fortune and that's an idea which is but
it's it's not an AI because it's not the
paper clip that's going out there it's
it's really your idea in the first place
that that has caused the whole value of
the paper clip and similarly if you
invent a
dumb Arbitrage
machine which seeks out complicated
trades to make which which are more
complicated than anyone else is trying
to do and that makes you a fortune well
the thing that made you a fortune was
not the Arbitrage machine it was your
idea for how how to search for Arbitrage
opportunities that no one else sees
and that's the usual way of making
money in the economy you have an idea
and then you implement it
right that that is was an AI is beside
the point it could have been a paper
clip
but but the thing is um so the models
that are used nowadays are um are not
expert systems like the chess engines of
the 90s they're you know something like
Alpha zero or off a go this is just like
a almost a blank neural net
um and that they were able to help you
know let it win go or
um so if such a if such a neural network
that was kind of blank and if you just
arbitrarily throw Financial history at
it wouldn't it be fair to say that the
AI actually figured out what the right
trades were even though it's not a
general intelligence
well I think it it's possible in chess
and but not in the economy because the
value in the economy is being created by
creativity and uh most you know
arbitrary is one thing that can sort of
skim value off the top by taking
opportunities that were too expensive
for other people to take so you can you
know you can make money you make a lot
of money that way if you if you know if
you have a good idea about how to do it
but most of the value in the economy is
created by the creation of knowledge
somebody has the idea that a smartphone
would be good to have even though uh
most people think that that that's not
going to work and that idea
cannot be anticipated by anything less
than an AGI an AGI could have that idea
but no AI could okay
um so I there's definitely other topics
I will want to get to so let's talk
about virtual reality so in the fabric
of reality
um you discuss the possibility that
virtual reality generators could plug in
directly into our nervous system and
give us sense data that way now uh as
you might know many meditators you know
people like Sam Harris speak of
um both thoughts and senses as
intrusions into Consciousness that have
a sort of similar they can be welcome
intrusions but they are both things that
come into Consciousness so
um do you think uh that a virtual
reality generator could also Place
thoughts as well as sense data into the
mind
uh yes but that's only because I think
that this model uh is is wrong it's it's
basically the the Cartesian theater as
then then it puts it uh with the stage
cleared of all the characters
so you that that's the that's that's
conscious pure Consciousness without
content as as Sam Harris envisages it
but I think that all is happening there
is that you are conscious of this
theater
uh and your your uh envisaging it as
having certain properties which by the
way it doesn't have but that doesn't
matter we can imagine lots of things
that don't happen
um you know in fact you know that's in a
way it characterizes what we do all the
time
um uh so uh one can interpret one's
thoughts about this empty stage as being
thoughts about nothing one can uh
interpret
the actual Hardware of the stage that
one is imagining as being
pure conscious contentless Consciousness
but it's not it has the content of a
stage or a a a a space or you know
however you want to envisage it
okay and then let's talk about the
touring principle so this is the term
you coined um it's otherwise been called
The Church touring Deutsche principle
um would this principle imply that you
could so by the way it states that any a
universal computer can simulate any
physical process would this principle
imply that you could simulate the whole
of the universe for example in a compact
efficient computer that was smaller than
the universe itself or is is it
constrained to physical processes of a
certain size
uh again uh no it couldn't uh it
couldn't simulate the whole universe uh
that would be an example of a task where
it was uh computationally able to do it
but it wouldn't have enough memory or
time
so the more memory and time you gave it
the more closely it could simulate the
whole universe but it couldn't ever
simulate the whole universe or anything
near the whole universe probably because
it
um
uh well
if you wanted to simulate itself as well
then there are logical reasons why there
are limits to that but even if you
wanted to simulate the whole universe
apart from itself just the sheer size of
the universe uh makes that that uh
impossible even if we discovered
ways of
encoding information extremely densely
like some people have said maybe quantum
gravity would allow uh you know totally
amazing
um
uh density of information it still
couldn't uh simulate the universe
because that would mean because of the
universality of the laws of physics that
would mean the rest of the universe also
was that complex because quantum gravity
applies to the whole unit the rest of
the universe as well so
so but but I think it's significant
being limited by the available time and
memory
to to separate that from being limited
by uh computational capacity because
it's only when you separate those that
you realize
what computational universality is and
and I think that's the universality like
Turing or Quantum universality is the
most important thing uh in the theory of
computation because uh computation
doesn't even make sense unless you have
a concept of a universal computer
um what could falsify your theory that
uh all interesting problems are soluble
so I asked this because um as I'm sure
you know there are people who have tried
offering explanations for by certain
problems or questions like why is there
something rather than nothing or how
could mirror physical interactions
explain Consciousness they've offered
exercise why these problems are in in
principle insoluble now I'm not
convinced they're right but do you have
a strong reason for in principle
believing that they're wrong
uh no
um so these this is a philosophical
Theory and could not be proved uh Wrong
by experiment however I think I have
um a good argument for why they aren't
namely that
each individual case of this
is is a bad explanation so let's uh say
that that uh some people say for example
that uh simulating a human brain is is
impossible
now I can't prove that it's possible
nobody can prove that it's possible
until they actually do it or unless they
have a design for it which they prove
will work so
um pending that there is there is no way
of proving that that uh it's not true
that this is a fundamental limitation
but the the trouble is with that idea
that it is a fundamental limitation that
the trouble with that is that it could
be applied to anything for example
um
it could be applied to the theory that
you have recently just a minute ago been
replaced by a humanoid robot
uh which which has got is going to save
for the next few minutes just to
pre-arrange set of things and you're no
longer a person I can't believe you
figured it out
yeah yeah well that's the first thing
you'd say so there is no way to uh
refute that by experiment short of
actually doing it short of actually
talking to you and and so on so it's the
same with all these other things
in order for it to make sense to have a
theory that something is impossible you
have to have an explanation for why it
is impossible so we know that for
example almost all
mathematical propositions are
undecidable
so that's not because somebody has said
oh maybe maybe we can't decide
everything because uh thinking we could
decide everything is hubris that's not
an argument you need an an actual
functional argument to prove that that
is so and then
uh at being a functional argument in in
in which the
steps of the argument make sense and
relate to other things and so on you can
then say well what does this actually
mean does this mean that maybe uh we can
never understand the laws of physics uh
well it doesn't because if the laws of
physics included an undecidable function
then we would simply write you know f of
x and f of x is an undecidable function
we couldn't evaluate f of x it would
limit our ability to make predictions
but then a lot saying our ability to
make predictions is totally limited
anyway but it would not affect our
ability to unders to understand the
properties of the function x f and
therefore the properties of the of the
physical world
okay is a system of government like
Americas which has distributed powers
and checks and balances is that
incompatible with proper criteria so the
reason I ask is the last administration
had a theory that if you build a wall
there will be positive consequences
um and uh you know that there could have
been tested and then the person could
have been evaluated and whether that
theory succeeded but because our system
of government has distributed Powers you
know Congress opposed uh the testing of
that theory and so it was never tested
um so if our the American government
wanted to fulfill Proverbs criteria on
would we need to give the president more
power for example
um it's not as simple as that so I agree
that this is this is a big defect in the
American system of government no country
has a system of government that that
perfectly fulfills proper criteria
uh Criterion
um we can always improve I I think the
British one is actually the best uh in
in the world and it's far from far from
optimal
making a single change like that is not
going to be the answer the the
constitution of a polity
is a very complicated thing much of
which is inexplicit so
um the um the founding fathers
the American founding fathers
realized they had a tremendous problem
is that what they wanted to do
what they thought of themselves as doing
was to implement the British
constitution in fact they thought they
were the Defenders of the British
constitution and that the uh British
king
had violated it and and was was bringing
it down they wanted to retain it the
trouble is that they they all in order
to do this to gain the independence to
do this they had to get rid of the king
and then they they wondered whether they
should get an alternative King whichever
way they did it there were problems
the way they decided to do it
I think made for a system that was
inherently much worse than the one they
were replacing but they had no choice
if they wanted to get rid of a king
they had to have a different system for
having a head of state therefore they
had to have uh and it they wanted to be
Democratic they uh that meant that the
the president
had a legitimacy in legislation that the
king never had
oh sorry never had it the king did used
to have it in medieval times but the
King by the by the time of the of the
Enlightenment and so on uh no longer had
a full legitimacy to legislate so
they they had to
Implement a system where him seizing
power was was prevented by something
other than tradition
and so they instituted these checks and
balances
checks and so the whole thing they
instituted was immensely sophisticated
it's an amazing intellectual achievement
and that it works as well as it does is
something some something of a miracle
but the uh inherent flaws are there and
one of them is this the fact that there
are checks and balances means that
responsibility is dissipated and nobody
is ever to blame for anything in the
American system
which which is terrible
in in the British system blame is
absolutely focused you know everything
is sacrificed to the to the
um end of focusing blame and
responsibility down to the mid to the
government you know past past the the
Law Courts that passed the parliament
right to the government that's that's
that's where it's all focused into
um and uh there are no systems that do
that better but uh as you well know the
the British system also has
uh flaws and we we recently saw with the
with the sequence of events with with uh
brexit referendum and then Parliament
bulking at implementing a uh uh some
some laws they didn't agree with and
then uh that being referred to the
courts and so there was the courts and
the Parliament and the government and
the Prime Minister all blaming each
other and there was sort of many
constitutional crisis
uh which could only be resolved by
having an election and then having a
majority government which is by the
mathematics of how the government works
that's how it usually is in Britain
although uh you know we have been
unlucky uh several times recently in in
not having a majority government
um okay so this could be wrong but it
seems to me in an expanded universe our
there will be like a finite amount of
total matters that will ever exist in
our Litecoin right there's a limit and
that means that there's a limit on the
amount of uh computation that uh this
matter can uh you know execute the
amount of energy it can provide uh
perhaps even the amount of economic
value we can sustain right so maybe uh
it would be weird if the GDP per atom
could be arbitrarily large
um so does this impose some sort of
limit on your concept of the beginning
of infinity
uh
so what you've just recounted is is a
cosmological theory
um this this the universe could be like
that
but uh we know very little about
cosmology we know very little about the
universes in the large like series of
cosmology are changing on a time scale
of about a decade
so it doesn't make all that much sense
to speculate about what the ultimate
asymptotic form of the cosmological
theories will be at the same time
um we we don't have a good idea about
the asymptotic form of very small things
like we know that
our conception of physical processes
must break down somehow at the level of
quantum gravity
like 10 to the minus 42 seconds and uh
that kind of thing but but uh we have no
idea what happens below that some people
say it's got to stop below that but
there's no there's no argument for that
at all it it's just that we don't know
what happens beyond that now what
happens beyond that may be a finite
limit similarly the way what happens on
a large scale May impose a finite limit
in which case computation is bounded by
a finite limit imposed by the
cosmological initial conditions of this
universe which is still different from
its being imposed by
inherent
um
uh Hardware limitations for example if
there's a finite amount of
um
GMP uh available in the distant future
then it's still up to us whether we
spend that on
um mathematics or music or or the
political systems or or any of the
thousands of even more worthwhile things
that have yet to be invented
and so it's it's up to us which ideas we
fill the 10 to the 10 to the 10 to 10
bits with
now uh I
my guess is that there are no such
limits but my world view is not affected
by whether there are such limits
um because as I said it's it's still up
to us what to fill them with
and then if we get chopped off at some
point in the future then everything will
have been worthwhile up to them
gotcha
um okay so the way I understand uh your
concept with the Union Infinity it seems
to me that the more knowledge we gained
um the normal knowledge we're in a
position to gain so there should be like
an exponential growth of knowledge but
if we look at the last 50 years it seems
that there's been a Slowdown in um or
decrease in resource productivity
economic growth productivity growth and
this seems compatible with the story
that you know that there's a limited
amount of fruit on the tree that we pick
the little hanging fruit and now there's
a less and less fruit and harder and
harder fruit to pick
um and you know eventually well the
orchard will be empty um so do you have
an alternative explanation for what's
going on in the last 50 years
yes I I think it's very simple there are
sociological factors uh in in academic
life
which have uh stultified
um the the culture
and not not not totally and not
everywhere but that that has been a
tendency in what has happened and it has
resulted in a a uh loss of productivity
in many sectors in many ways but not in
every sector not in every way and and
um uh the the uh
for example I I think there was a I've
I've often said
there was a stultification in uh
theoretical physics
um starting in let's say the 1920s and
and it still hasn't fully dissipated
if it wasn't for that
quantum computers would have been
invented in the 1930s and built in the
1960s
uh so that is
just an accidental fact but it's it's it
just goes to show that there are no
guarantees the fact that that the our
Horizons are unlimited does not
guarantee that we will get anywhere that
we won't start declining tomorrow I
don't think we are currently declining I
think the the these declines that we see
are parochial effects caused by specific
mistakes that that uh have been made and
which can be undone
um okay so uh I I want to ask you a
question about bayesianism versus uh
paparianism so one reason why people
prefer uh base is because there seems to
be a way of describing changes it
changes in Epic stamp mix status when
the relative status of a theory hasn't
changed so give you an example
um currently the many world inter uh
explanation is the best way to explain
quantum mechanics right but suppose we
in the future yeah okay uh but suppose
in the future we
um we were able to build uh an AGI on a
quantum computer and we're able to
design some clever
um interference experiment as you
suggest to have it be able to report
back being in a superposition across
many worlds now it seems that
um even though many worlds Remains the
best or the only explanation somehow its
epidemic status has changed
um as a result of the experiment
um and in a Bayesian terms you could say
the Credence of this theory has
increased how would you describe these
sorts of changes in a barbarian View
so what what has happened there is that
uh at the moment we have only one
explanation that can't be immediately
knocked down
if we had if if we did that thought
experiment we would we might well decide
that this will
provide the ammunition to knock down
even
ideas for alternative explanations that
have not been thought of yet
I mean obviously it wouldn't be enough
to knock down every possible explanation
because for a start we know that quantum
theory is false we don't know for sure
that the next Theory will have many
worlds in it I mean I think it will but
but you know we that we can't prove
anything like that but uh I I would
replace the idea of increased Credence
with uh uh a theory that that the the
uh experiment
will provide
a a
quiver full of arrows or a a
um a repertoire of arguments that goes
beyond
um the the known arguments the known bad
arguments and uh
um will reach into other types of
arguments because the the reason I I
would say that is that
some of the existing misconceptions
about Quantum Theory reside in
misconceptions about uh the the
methodology of science
now I've written a paper about what I
think is the right methodology of
science where that does doesn't uh apply
but but
um
many physicists and many philosophers
would disagree with that and they would
um
uh advocate
a methodology of science that's more
um uh based on empiricism
of course I think that empiricism is a
mistake and can be knocked down in its
own terms so we shouldn't but but that
not everybody thinks that now once we
have an experiment such as my my thought
experiment if that was actually done
then people could not use their
arguments based on uh fallacious idea of
empiricism because their Theory would
have been refuted even by the standards
of empiricism
which shouldn't have been needed in the
first place but you know so that's why I
think that that's the way I would
Express that the repertoire of arguments
would become more powerful if that
experiment were done successfully
um the next question I have is
how far do you take the principle that
open-ended scientific progress is the
best way to deal with existential
dangers to give it one example uh many
people have suggested
um so you have something like gain a
function research right and it's
conceivable that it could lead to more
knowledge and how to stop dangerous
pathogens but
um I guess at least in days in terms you
could say it seems even more likely uh
that it can or has led to the the spread
of a man-made pathogen that would have
not otherwise been
um naturally developed so what would
your belief in open-ended scientific
progress allow us to say okay let's stop
data function research
no it wouldn't allow us to say let's
stop it it might
um
make it reasonable to say
let us do research into how to make
Laboratories more secure before we do
gain a function research it's really
part of the same thing it's it's it's
like saying
uh let's do research into how how to
make the plastic hoses through which the
reagents pass uh more impermeable before
we actually do the experiments with the
reagents so it's all part of the same
experiment I wouldn't want to stop
something just because new knowledge
might be discovered that that's that's
the No-No in in my view but but which
knowledge we need to discover first
that's the problem of scheduling which
is non-trivial non-trivial part of any
research
and of any learning
but whatever you're consumable for you
to say that until we figure out how to
make sure these Laboratories are
um as safe to a certain standard
um we will stop uh the research as it
exists now and then uh meanwhile we will
uh meanwhile we'll focus on doing the
other kind of research so greater
function can restart but until then it's
not allowed
uh
yes in principle that would be
reasonable I don't know enough about the
actual situation to have a view you know
I don't know how these Labs work I don't
know what the what the
um what the precautions consist of and
when I hear people talking about for
example lab leak uh I think well the
most likely lab league is that one of
the people who works there walks out of
the front door
uh so the league is not a leaps of from
the lab to the outside the the the the
leak is from the test tube to the person
and then from the person walking out the
door
uh and uh I don't know enough about what
these proportions are or what what the
state of the art is to know to what
extent the risk is actually minimized it
could be that the the culture of these
Labs is not good enough in which case it
would be part of the next experiment to
improve the culture and the labs but I I
am very suspicious of saying that all
Labs have to stop and and meet a
Criterion because I'm sure that this the
well I suspect that this the stopping
wouldn't be necessary and the Criterion
wouldn't be appropriate
again the the which Criterion to use
depends on the actual research being
done when I had Tyler Khan on my podcast
um I asked him
um why he thinks so he thinks that human
television is only going to be around
for 700 more years and then so I asked
him I gave him you know your rebuttal or
what I understand to be a rebuttal that
um you know creative optimistic
societies will innovate ways of uh you
know safety Technologies faster than
totalitarian static societies can
innovate way destructive Technologies
and he responded you know maybe but the
cost of Destruction is just so much
lower than uh the cost of building
um and you know that trend has been
going on for a while now uh what happens
when a new cost sixty thousand dollars
um or what happens if there's a mistake
like uh the kinds that you know we saw
many times over in the Cold War how
would you respond to that
first of all I think we've been getting
safer and safer throughout the entire
history of civilization
um the you know there were these plagues
that that wiped out a heart third of the
population of the of the world or half
uh and it could have been 99 or 100
uh we we went through some kind of
uh bottleneck 70 000 years ago I
understand uh which they can tell from
from genetics all our cousin species
have been wiped out so so uh we will we
were much less safe than now also if um
if a
asteroid 10 kilometer asteroid had been
on target with the Earth at any time in
the in the past two million year or
whatever it is history of the genus homo
that would have been the end of it
whereas now
it'll just mean higher taxation for a
while
uh you know that that's the that's how
much amazingly safer we are now uh I I
would never say that it's impossible
that we'll destroy ourselves that that
would be uh the contrary to the
universality of of the human mind we can
make wrong choices we can make so many
wrong choices that will destroy
ourselves
um
uh and the the uh on the other hand the
the atomic bomb accident sort of thing
would have had no zero chance of
destroying civilization all they would
have done is cause a vast amount of
suffering
uh and uh but that I don't think we have
the technology to end civilization even
if we wanted to
I I think all we would do if we just
deliberately Unleashed hell all over the
world is we would cause a vast amount of
suffering but there would be survivors
and they they would resolve never to do
that again
um so I I don't think we're even able to
let alone uh that we would do it
accidentally
but uh as for the bad guys well
I think we are doing the wrong thing
largely in regard to both uh external
and internal threats but uh I don't
think we're doing the wrong thing to an
existential risk level and over the next
700 years or whatever it is well I don't
want to prophesy because I I don't know
most most of the advances that are going
to be made in that time but uh
I see no reason why if we are solving
problems
we won't solve problems
I I don't think this this uh forget to
take another metaphor uh nick bostrom's
uh
jar with white balls and there's one
black ball and you you take out of white
ball and white ball and white ball and
then you hit the black ball and that's
the end of you I don't think it's like
that because every white ball you take
out and have
reduces the number of black balls in the
jar
so uh again I'm not saying that's the
law of nature it could be that the very
next ball we take out will be the black
one that'll be the end of us it could be
but I think all arguments that it will
be are fallacious
I do want to talk about the fun
Criterion is your definition of fun
different from how other people Define
other positive emotions like um
eudomonia or well-being or satisfaction
is is it find a different emotion
uh I don't think it's an emotion and and
I I all these things are not very well
defined uh they can't possibly be very
well defined until we have a
satisfactory theory of qualia at least
and probably more satisfactory theory of
creativity how creativity works and so
on uh I think that
um
the choice of the word fun for the thing
that I I uh explain more precisely but
still not very precisely as as
um uh a a creation of knowledge without
uh uh where where the different kinds of
knowledge in explicit unconscious
conscious explicit uh are uh all
um in harmony with each other
I think that is actually
um
the only way in which the
everyday usage of the word fun differs
from that is that fun is considered
frivolous or uh
seeking fun is considered as seeking
frivolity but I think that isn't so much
a different use of the word it's it's
it's just a different pejorative theory
about whether this is a good or bad
thing but but nevertheless I can't
Define it precisely the important thing
is that there is a thing which has these
this property of fun that that you can't
you can't compulsorily enact it
so in in
in in
um in some views you know no pain no
gain well then you you can find out
mechanically whether the thing is
causing pain and whether it's doing it
according to the theory that said that
says that you will have gain if you have
that pain and so on so that can all be
done mechanically and therefore it is
subject to the criticism and that
another way of looking at the Fun theory
is that it's a mode of criticism
um is subject to the criticism that this
isn't Fun I.E this is making an uh
privileging one kind of knowledge
arbitrarily over another rather than
being rational and letting content aside
is this placing a limitation on
universal explainers then if they can't
create some sort of theory about why a
thing could or should be fine why
anything could be fun
um and um it seems to me that sometimes
we actually can make things fun that
aren't like for example take exercise no
pain no gain it's like when you first go
it's not fun but you know once you start
going you understand the mechanics you
develop a theory for why it can and
should be fun yes yes well that that's
quite a good example because
there you see that fun cannot be defined
as the absence of pain
so you you can be having fun
while experiencing physical pain
and that physical pain is not sparking
suffering but joy
um however there is such a thing as
physical pain not sparking Joy
as Marie kondo would say
um and and that's important because
if you are
dogmatically
or uncritically
implementing in your life
a theory of the good that involves pain
and which excludes the criticism that
maybe this can't be fun
or maybe this isn't yet fun or maybe I
should make it fun and if I can't that's
a reason to stop you know all those
things if all those things are excluded
because by definition the thing is good
and your pain your suffering doesn't
matter
then then that opens the door to not
only to
suffering
but to stasis you you won't be able to
get to a better Theory
and then why is fun
um fun Central to this instead of
another emotion so you know like for
example Aristotle thought that's like I
guess a sort of uh widely defined sense
of happiness is what should be the goal
of our endeavors
um why fun instead of something like
that
uh well that's defining it vaguely
enough so that what you said might very
well be fun the point is the the
underlying thing is as far as you know
going one level below where really to
understand that we need to go about
seven levels below that which we can't
do yet but uh the the important thing is
that there are several kinds of
knowledge in our brains and the one that
is written down in the exercise book
that says you should do this number of
reps and you should
um you should power through this and and
it doesn't matter if you feel that and
so on that's an explicit Theory and it
contains some knowledge but it also
contains error
um that's like all our knowledge is like
that we also have other knowledge which
is which is contained in our
um biology It's contained in our genes
we have knowledge that is inexplicit
like our knowledge of of grammar is my
always my favorite example as we know
you know why certain sentences are
acceptable and why they're unacceptable
but we can't State explicitly
all in every case why it it isn't or why
it is
um uh and then there's there's
um so that there's explicit and
inexplicit knowledge there's conscious
and unconscious knowledge all those are
bits of program in the brain their ideas
they are they they
um are bits of knowledge in this if you
define knowledge as information with
causal power they are all information
with causal power they all contain truth
and they all contain error and it's
always a mistake to Shield something to
Shield one of them from criticism or
replacement not doing that is is what I
call a fun Criterion now you might say
that so that's a bad name but you know
it's the best I can find
so why would creating an AGI through
Evolution necessarily entail suffering
because the way I see it or it seems to
me your theory is that you need to be a
general intelligence in order to feel
suffering but by the point an evolved uh
simulated being is a general
intelligence we can just stop the we can
just stop the simulation and so where is
the suffering coming from
okay
so the kind of simulation by Evolution
that I'm thinking of I mean there there
may be several kinds but the kind I'm
thinking of and which I said would be
the greatest crime in history is the
kind that just simulates the actual
evolution of humans from pre-humans that
weren't people
so you have you have a population of
non-people which in this simulation
would be some kind of
NPCs uh and and then they would they
would just evolve we don't know what the
Criterion would be we just have an
artificial Universe which simulated the
surface of the Earth and they'd be
walking around and some of them might or
might not become people
and now the the thing is when you're
part of the way there what is happening
is that you have uh
the way that I the only way that I can
imagine the evolution of personhood or
create the explanatory creativity
happened was that
uh the hardware needed for it for it was
was first needed for something else I I
have proposed that it was needed to to
transmit memes so there'd be people who
were transmitting memes creatively but
they were running out of resources so
they weren't running out of resources uh
before
it managed to increase their their stock
of means so
in every generation there was a stock of
memes that was being passed down to the
Next Generation and once they got Beyond
a certain complexity they had to be
passed down by the use of creativity by
the recipient
so
there may well have been a time and as I
say I can't think of any other way it
could have been where there was genuine
creativity being used but it ran out of
resources very quickly but not so
quickly that it didn't uh increase the
meme bandwidth
then in the Next Generation there was
more mean bandwidth so and then after
you know a certain number of generations
there would have been some opportunity
to use this
Hardware or whatever it is you know
firmware I expect to use this firmware
for something other than just blindly
transmitting memes or rather creatively
transmitting memes but but they were
blind memes
so uh in that time
it would have been very unpleasant to be
alive it was already very unpleasant to
to sorry it was very unpleasant to be
alive
when we did have enough resources to
think as well as do the memes but I I I
don't think there would have been a
moment at which you would say yes
now the suffering begins to matter
because it's not just blind memes I I
think the people were already suffering
at the at the time when they were
blindly transmitting memes
genuine creativity they were just not
using it to any good effect
I gotcha
um would uh would being in the
experience machine be compatible with
the fun Criterion so
um you're not aware that you're in you
know uh the experience machine it's all
virtual reality
um but you're still doing the things
that would make you have fun in fact
more so than in the real world
um so would you be tempted to get an
experience machine uh what do we
compatible with the fun criteria on I
guess there are different questions but
I'm not sure what the experience machine
is I mean if oh sorry just
so I mean is it is it just
a virtual reality world in in which uh
things work better than in the real
world or something yeah so it's uh
Alexander Robert nozick and the idea is
that you would enter this world and but
you would forget that you're in virtual
reality so all uh I mean the world would
be perfect in every possible way that it
could be perfect or not perfect but it
would be better in every possible way it
could be better
um but you would think the relationships
you have here are real the knowledge
you're discovering here is novel and so
on
is it would you be tempted to enter the
central world
uh well no I I I certainly wouldn't want
to enter a world any world which
involves erasing the memory that I have
come from this world
uh related to that is the fact that the
laws of physics in this virtual world
um couldn't be the true ones because the
true ones aren't yet known
so I'd be in a world in which I was
trying to learn laws of physics which
aren't the actual laws
and they would have been designed by
somebody for some purpose to manipulate
me as it were maybe maybe it would be
designed to like be a puzzle that would
that would take 50 years to solve but it
would have to be by definition a finite
puzzle
and it wouldn't be the actual world and
meanwhile in the actual World things are
going wrong and I don't know about this
and eventually they go so wrong that my
computer runs out of power
and then where will I be
[Laughter]
um the final question I always like to
ask people interview is what advice
would you give to young people so um
somebody in their 20s is there something
that you would like to uh some advice
you would give them
um
well I I try very hard not to give
advice because uh it's it's not a good
relationship to be with some in with
somebody to give them advice I can have
opinions about things
so uh for example I I may have an
opinion that that um
it's dangerous to
condition your short-term goals by
reference to some long-term goal
and I have a what I think is a good
epistemological reason for that namely
that
if your short-term goals are subordinate
to your long-term goal then you won't if
your long-term goal is wrong or
deficient in some way you won't find out
until you're dead
so it it it's a bad idea because it is
subordinating the things that you could
error correct now
or in six months time or in a year's
time to something that you could only uh
error correct on a 50-year time scale
and then it'll be too late so I'm I'm uh
suspicious of advice of the form
set your goal and even more suspicious
of make your goal be so-and-so huh
interesting
advice but why is it why do you think
the uh the relationship between adviceee
and um advice giver is dangerous
oh well because it's one of authority uh
again you know
I tried to make this example of quote
advice that I just gave I tried to make
it non-authoritative I just gave an
argument for why certain other arguments
are bad
so but if it's advice of the form
or a healthy mind in a healthy body or
um don't drink coffee before 12 o'clock
or you know something like that
it's it's
um
well it's a known argument it's it's uh
it's it if I if I have an argument I can
give the argument and not tell the
person what to do
uh who knows what somebody might do with
an argument they might change it to to a
better argument which actually implies
different Behavior
I can contribute to the world
arguments make arguments as best I can I
don't claim that they are privileged
over other arguments
I I just put them out because I think
that this argument works and I expect
other people not to think that they work
I mean we've just done this in this very
podcast you know we I put out an
argument about Ai and that kind of thing
and you criticize it you you now if if
if I was in the position of
making that argument and saying that
therefore you should do so and so
that's a relationship of authority which
I think is immoral to have
well David thanks so much for um thanks
so much for coming on the podcast and
thanks so much
fascinating thank you for um for
inviting me
[Music]
thank you